1- As protests continue over Chinmoy Krishna Das arrest, Tripura CM Manik Saha stresses vigil on border,

As protests continued on Thursday over the arrest of Hindu preacher Chinmoy Krishna Das Brahmachari in Bangladesh, Tripura Chief Minister Manik Saha stressed prevention of infiltration through the international border. He also accused the Opposition CPM of double standards.

“Naturally it is an international problem. Our central leadership has already communicated and they have given their message. Along similar lines, we also say they should protect the minorities over there. I talked to the DG (director-general of police) today about ensuring that no intruders come inside,” he told reporters.

Criticising the CPM, Saha said, “They are not saying anything. They are busy with ganja and Iraq… They have not spoken a single word on the issue.”

//image 

2- Maharashtra in the bag, Ajit Pawar sets sight on Delhi polls; eyes national party tag for NCP

After tasting success in the Maharashtra elections, NCP chief Ajit Pawar on Thursday declared his party will contest the Delhi Assembly elections in its bid to regain the national party status.

Addressing a felicitation ceremony at the NCP’s office in the national capital, he also dismissed the opposition allegations of misuse of EVMs in the Maharashtra elections and asserted that the Mahayuti alliance was united and will form government soon.

Pawar said the leaders of the Mahayuti alliance were meeting for the first time on Thursday evening after the election results were announced.
“We are united… There are no differences,” he said.

Advertisement

Pawar also said the opposition MVA coalition was blaming the EVMs (electronic voting machines) as they did not get the desired results in the Assembly elections.

“There is no truth to their allegations. They are blaming EVMs because they did not get a favourable result in the assembly elections,” Pawar told reporters in New Delhi.

The Congress and NCP-SP have raised doubts over the use of EVMs in the conduct of Assembly elections and demanded a return to the practice of using ballot paper for polling.

Pawar pointed out that the opposition parties have won elections in Punjab, Delhi, Karnataka, Telangana, West Bengal, and Kerala using EVMs

//image 


3- Railway minister dismisses reports of delay in Vande Bharat sleeper trains over design

Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has dismissed media reports claiming delay in starting the manufacturing process for Vande Bharat sleeper trains due to design clearance issues.

During a media interaction on Thursday, Vaishnaw said that design was never an issue with the Russian firm roped in to manufacture these train sets.

Earlier, a section of media quoting officials from the Russian company Transmashholding (TMH) reported that Indian Railways demanded toilets and a pantry car in the train which necessitated tweaking the trains’ design.

Advertisement

The reports further said the firm addressed Railway Ministry’s concerns with a change in design and sent it to the ministry for clearance, which, however, hasn’t responded with its consent.

As per the contracts, the firm is supposed to manufacture 1,920 sleeper coaches.

Also Read | Vande Bharat sleeper trains could face delays on design tweaks inside coaches
However, ministry sources said these reports were baseless as the real issues were with regard to the limited manufacturing capabilities of the firm because in Russia, trains have less number of coaches as compared to India.

“The firm doesn’t have experience to manufacture a train set of more than six or eight coaches. We had clearly told them that we will give them design of Vande Bharat to follow. What they need is more manufacturing teams,” Vaishnaw said

//image 